distinguished guests including our
presidents and first ladies
government officials foreign dignitaries
and Friends
Jeb Neil Marvin daro and I and our
families thank you all for being here I
once heard it said of man that the idea
is to die young as late as possible at
age 85 a favorite pastime of George HW
Bush was firing up his boat to fidelity
and opening up to three 300 horsepower
engines to fly joyfully fly across the
Atlantic with the Secret Service boats
straining to keep up at age 90 George HW
Bush parachuted out of an aircraft and
landed on the grounds of st. Ann's by
the sea in Kennebunkport Maine the
church where his mom was married and
where he worshipped often mother like to
say he chose the location just in case
the chute didn't open
in his 90s he took great delight when
his closest pal James a baker smuggled a
bottle of Grey Goose vodka into his
hospital room apparently it paired well
with the state Baker had delivered from
Morton's to his very last dazed as life
was instructive as he aged he taught us
how to grow with dignity humor and
kindness and when the good Lord finally
called how to meet him with courage and
with the joy of the promise of what lies
ahead one reason dad knew how to die
young is that he almost did it twice
when he was a teenager a staph infection
nearly took his life few years later he
was alone in the Pacific on a life raft
praying that his rescuers would find him
before the enemy did God answered those
prayers it turned out he had other plans
for George HW Bush for dads part I think
those brushes with death meeting
cherished the gift of life and he vowed
to live every day to the fullest that
was always busy a man in constant motion
but never too busy to share his love of
life with those around him he taught us
to love the outdoors he loved watching
dogs flusher Covey
he loved Landing the elusive striper and
once confined to a wheelchair he seemed
happy a sitting in his favorite perch on
the back porch at walkers point
contemplating the majesty of the
Atlantic that horizons he saw were
bright and hopeful he was a genuinely
optimistic man and that optimism guided
his children and made each of us believe
that anything was possible he
continually broaden his horizons with
daring decisions
he was a patriot after high school he
put College on hold and became a Navy
fighter pilot as world war ii broke out
like many of his generation he never
talked about his service until his time
as a public figure forced his hand we
learned of the attack on chichi Jima the
mission completed the shoot down we
learned the death of his crewmates whom
he thought about throughout his entire
life and we learned of the rescue and
then another audacious decision
he moved his young family from the
comforts of the East Coast to Odessa
Texas he and mom adjusted to their arid
surroundings quickly he's a tolerant man
after all he was kind and neighborly to
the women with whom he mom and I shared
a bathroom in our small duplex even
after you learned their profession
ladies of the night
dad could relate to people from all
walks of life
he was an empathetic man he valued
character over pedigree and he was no
cynic he looked for the good a nice
person and he usually found it dad
taught us that public service is noble
and necessary that one can serve with
integrity and hold true to the important
values like faith and family he strongly
believed that it was important to give
back to the community and country in
which one lived he recognized as serving
others enriched the giver soul to us his
was the brightest of a thousand points
of light in victory he shared credit
when he lost he shouldered the blame he
accepted that failure is a part of
living a full life but taught us never
to be defined by failure he showed us
how setbacks can strengthen none of his
disappointments could compare with one
of life's greatest tragedies the loss of
a young child Jeb and I were too young
to remember the pain and agony he and
mom felt when our three year old sister
died we only learned later that Dad a
man of quiet faith prayed for her daily
he was sustained by the love of the
Almighty and the real and enduring love
of her mom dad always believed that one
day he would hug his precious Robin
again
he loved to laugh especially at himself
he could tease a needle but never out of
malice he placed great value on a good
joke so I chose Simpson to speak
on email he had a circle of friends with
whom he shared or received the latest
jokes his grading system for the quality
of the joke was classic George Bush the
rare sevens and eights were considered
huge winners most of Mothe color George
Bush knew how to be a true and loyal
friend he nurtured and honored many his
many friendships with a generous in
giving soul there exists thousands of
handwritten notes encouraging or
sympathizing or thanking his friends and
acquaintances he had an enormous
capacity to give of himself many a
person would tell you that dad became a
mentor and a father figure in their life
he listened and he consoled he was their
friend
I think if Don Rhodes Taylor Blanton Jim
Nance Arnold Schwarzenegger and perhaps
the unlikeliest of all the man who
defeated him Bill Clinton my siblings
and I refer to the guys in this group as
brothers from other mothers
he taught us that a day was not meant to
be wasted he played golf at a legendary
pace I always wonder why I insisted on
speed golf he's a good golfer well
here's my conclusion he played fast so
he could move on to the next event
to enjoy the rest of the day to expend
his enormous energy to live at all he
was born with just two settings full
throttle
then sleep taught us what it means to be
a wonderful father a grandfather and
great-grandfather he was firm in his
principles and supportive as we began to
seek her own ways he encouraged and
comforted but never steered we tested
his patience I know I did
but he always responded with the great
gift of unconditional love last Friday
when I was told he had minister live I
called him the guy answered the phone
said he I think he can hear you but he
hadn't said anything for most of the day
I said dad I love you and you've been a
wonderful father and the last words he
would ever say on earth were I love you
too - I seem as close to perfect but not
totally perfect his short game was lousy
he wasn't exactly Fred Astaire on the
dance floor the man couldn't stomach
vegetables especially broccoli
and by the way he passed these genetic
defects along to us
finally every day of a 73 years of
marriage dad taught us all what it means
to be a great husband he married a
sweetheart
he had order he laughed and cried with
her he was dedicated to her totally in
his old age dad enjoyed watching police
show reruns the volume on high
all the while holding mom's hand after
mom died dad was strong but all he
really wanted to do was hold mom's hand
again of course dad taught me another
special lesson he showed me what it
means to be a president who serves with
integrity leads with courage and acts
with love in his heart for the citizens
of our country when the history books
are written they will say that George HW
Bush was a great president of the United
States a diplomat of unmanned skill a
commander-in-chief of formidable
accomplishment and a gentleman who
executed the duties of his office with
dignity and honor in his inaugural
address the 41st president of the United
States said this we cannot hope only to
leave our children a bigger car a bigger
bank account we must hope to give them a
sense of what it means to be a loyal
friend a loving parent a citizen who
leaves his home his neighborhood and
town better than he found it what do we
want the men and women who work with us
to save when we are no longer there that
we were more driven to succeed than
anyone around us or that we stopped to
ask of a sick child had gotten better
and stayed a moment there to trade a
word of friendship well dad we're gonna
remember you for exactly that and much
more and we're gonna miss you your
decency sincerity and kind soul will
stay with us forever so through our
tears let us know the blessings of
knowing and loving you a great and noble
man the best father a son or daughter
could have and in our grief but a smile
knowing that dad is hugging robbing and
holding mom's hand again
[Applause]